# Data-Wrangling-and-Analysis 
Data Wrangling is the first process of every data analysis process. It is an inevitable step and it influences the results of every data analysis project. Data wrangling involves the process of gathering data, assessing it programmatically and visually using pandas or external software such as Excel to fish-out data quality and tidiness issue for improving the data quality by making appropriate modifications to proper analyze and visualize the data. This Udacity project involves gathering data through direct download of provided data (twitter-archive-enhanced.csv), downloading of image-prediction.tsv data using provided URL with the help of the request library, as well as using the tweepy library to query Twitter's API additional data beyond the data included in the WeRateDogs Twitter archive. All of the downloaded data were then assess programmatically and by visual inspection to fish-out issues (Quality and Tidiness issues on specific columns which are of interests) with the data that needed adjustment. Some of the issues identified include; Wrong data type, inconsistency in data records, issues with None mistaken for Nan, conflicting information found in two different columns (one should be a derivative of the other), unnecessary columns, combining several columns to one as well as creating of new column to define a parameter which could be of interest in the dataset. All these issues have been addressed in the Wrangle_act_Project_Ayaba_Abendong.ipynb were the cleaning is done on a step by step basis and each cleaning step is verified to make sure it’s been executed. After cleaning all the identified issues, all the data were joined together to form a single data and some insights about the data is generated. An exemplified visualization was also made from a particular aspect of the data. Other libraries which have been utilize for this project includes pandas, numpy, datetime, os, json, matplotlib. The generated insights and visualization made are presented in a summary act_report.
